Add Chef Infra Client 16 release notes (#9614)
chef/chef: RELEASE_NOTES.md

This file holds "in progress" release notes for the current release under development and is intended for consumption by the Chef Documentation team. Please see <https://docs.chef.io/release_notes/> for the official Chef release notes.

# WIP_WIP_WIP_WIP Chef Infra Client 16 WIP_WIP_WIP_WIP

## Breaking Changes

### Log Resource Notification Behavior

> The log resource in a recipe or resource will no longer trigger notifications by default. This allows authors to more liberally use log resources without impacting the updated resources count or impacting reporting to Automate. This change will impact users that utilized the log resource to aggregate notifications from other resources. If you utilized the log resource to aggregate multiple notifications into a single notification you should convert to using the notify group resource to perform this action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The log resource in a recipe or resource will no longer trigger notifications by default. This allows authors to more liberally use log resources without impacting the updated resources count or impacting reporting to Automate. This change will impact users that used the log resource to aggregate notifications from other resources. If you used the log resource to aggregate multiple notifications into a single notification you should convert to using the notify group resource to perform this action.
```

### Changes to Knife

#### knife status --long uses cloud attribute

The `knife status --long` resource now uses Ohai's cloud data instead of ec2 specific data. This improves, but changes, the data output for users on non-AWS clouds.

#### knife-acl is now built-in

The knife-acl gem is now part of Chef Infra Client, but many of the commands have been moved into the existing knife user and group namespaces.

TODO: add details on the command changes from https://github.com/chef/chef/pull/9292

#### knife download role/environment format update

The `knife download role` and `knife download environment` commands now include all possible data fields including those without any data set. This new output behavior matches the behavior of other commands such as `knife role show` or `knife environment show`

#### Deprecated knife cookbook site command removed

The previously deprecated `knife cookbook site` commands have been removed. Use the `knife supermarket` commands instead.

#### Deprecated knife data bag create -s short option removed

> The deprecated `knife data bag create -s` option that was not properly honored has removed. Use the `--secret` option instead to set a data bag secrete file during data bag creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deprecated `knife data bag create -s` option that was not properly honored has been removed. Use the `--secret` option instead to set a data bag secret file during data bag creation.
```

#### sites-cookbooks directory no longer in cookbook_path

> The legacy `sites-cookbooks` directory is no longer added the default `cookbook_path` value. With this change any users with a legacy `sites-cookbooks` directory with need to use the `-O` flag to override the cookbook directory when running commands such as `knife cookbook upload`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The legacy `sites-cookbooks` directory is no longer added the default `cookbook_path` value. With this change any users with a legacy `sites-cookbooks` directory will need to use the `-O` flag to override the cookbook directory when running commands such as `knife cookbook upload`.
```

Reviewer: > The legacy `sites-cookbooks` directory is no longer added the default `cookbook_path` value.

This sentence is missing a word but I don't know enough about it to suggest a proper fix.

### required: true on Properties Now Behaves As Expected

The behavior of `required: true` has been changed to better align with th expected behavior. Previously if you set a property `required: true` on a custom resource property and did not explicitly reference the property in an action then Chef Infra Client would not raise an exception. This meant many users would add their own validation to raise for resources they wanted to ensure were always set. `required: true` will now properly raise if a property has not been set.

We've also expanded the `required` field to allow you to specify actions where individual properties are required. This is especially useful when `:create` actions require certain properties that may not be required for a `:remove` type property.

Example required field defining specific actions:

```ruby
property :password, String, required: [:create]

action :create do
  # code to create something
end

action :remove do
  # code to remove it that doesn't need a password
end
```

### Removal of Legacy metadata.rb depends Version Constraints

> Support for the `<<` and `>>` version constraints in metadata.rb has been removed. This was an undocumented feature from the Chef 0.10 era, which which is not used in any cookbooks on the Supermarket. We are mentioning it since it is technically a breaking change, but it unlikely that this change will be impacting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Support for the `<<` and `>>` version constraints in metadata.rb has been removed. This was an undocumented feature from the Chef 0.10 era, which is not used in any cookbooks on the Supermarket. We are mentioning it since it is technically a breaking change, but it unlikely that this change will be impacting.
```

#### knife-acl is now built-in

The knife-acl gem is now part of Chef Infra Client, but many of the commands have been moved into the existing knife user and group namespaces.

TODO: add details on the command changes from https://github.com/chef/chef/pull/9292

#### knife download role/environment format update

The `knife download role` and `knife download environment` commands now include all possible data fields including those without any data set. This new output behavior matches the behavior of other commands such as `knife role show` or `knife environment show`

#### Deprecated knife cookbook site command removed

The previously deprecated `knife cookbook site` commands have been removed. Use the `knife supermarket` commands instead.

#### Deprecated knife data bag create -s short option removed

The deprecated `knife data bag create -s` option that was not properly honored has been removed. Use the `--secret` option instead to set a data bag secret file during data bag creation.

#### sites-cookbooks directory no longer in cookbook_path

> The legacy `sites-cookbooks` directory is no longer added the default `cookbook_path` value. With this change any users with a legacy `sites-cookbooks` directory will need to use the `-O` flag to override the cookbook directory when running commands such as `knife cookbook upload`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The legacy `sites-cookbooks` directory is no longer added to the default `cookbook_path` value. With this change, any users with a legacy `sites-cookbooks` directory will need to use the `-O` flag to override the cookbook directory when running commands such as `knife cookbook upload`.
```

> If you have a repository that contains a `site-cookbooks` directory we highly recommend using Policyfiles or Berkshelf to properly resolve these external cookbook dependencies without the need to copy them locally. Alternatively you can move the contents of this folder into your main cookbook directory and they will continue to be seen by knife commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a repository that contains a `site-cookbooks` directory, we highly recommend using Policyfiles or Berkshelf to properly resolve these external cookbook dependencies without the need to copy them locally. Alternatively, you can move the contents of this folder into your main cookbook directory and they will continue to be seen by knife commands.
```

## New Resources

### alternatives

Thank @vkhatri

### chef_client_cron

### chef_client_systemd_timer

### chef_client_windows_task

### plist

Thank Microsoft and @americanhanko

### user_ulimit

### windows_security_policy

### windows_user_privilege

## Improved Resources

### compile_time on all resources

> The `compile_time` property is now available for all resource so that they can be set to run at compile time without the need forcing the action.

Reviewer 2: Should this be "without forcing the action" or "without needing to force the action"?

```suggestion
The `compile_time` property is now available for all resources so that they can be set to run at compile time without the need forcing the action.
```

### build_essential

The `build_essential` resource includes a new :upgrade action for macOS systems that allows you to install updates to the Xcode Command Line Tools available via Software Update.

### cron

The `cron` resource has been updated to use the same property validation for cron times that the `cron_d` resource uses. This improves failure messages when invalid inputs are set and also allows for `jan`-`dec` values to be used in the `month` property.

### dnf_package

> The `dnf_package` resource which provides `package` under the hood on any system shipping with DNF has been greatly refactored to resolve multiple issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `dnf_package` resource, which provides `package` under the hood on any system shipping with DNF, has been greatly refactored to resolve multiple issues.
```

- The `:lock` action now works on RHEL 8
- Fixes to prevent attempting to install the same package during each Chef Infra Client run

### git

The `git` resource now fully supports why-run mode.

### msu_package resource improvements

> The `msu_package` resource has been improved to better work with Microsoft's cumulative update packages. Newer releases of these packages will not correctly install over previous versions, and we've extended the default timeout for install MSU packages to 60 minutes. Thanks for reporting the timeout issue [@danielfloyd](https://github.com/danielfloyd)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `msu_package` resource has been improved to work better with Microsoft's cumulative update packages. Newer releases of these packages will not correctly install over previous versions. We've also extended the default timeout for installing MSU packages to 60 minutes. Thanks for reporting the timeout issue [@danielfloyd](https://github.com/danielfloyd)
```

Example:

```ruby
package %w(git curl packer)
```

### service

The `service` resource has been updated to support newer releases of `update-rc.d` so that it properly disables sys-v init services on Debian Linux distributions. Thanks [@robuye](https://github.com/robuye)

### systemd_unit

The `systemd_unit` resource now respects the `sensitive` property and does not output the content of unit files to the logs if set.

### windows_firewall_rule

The `windows_firewall_rule` resource has been greatly improved thanks to work by [@pschaumburg](https://github.com/pschaumburg) and [@tecracer-theinen](https://github.com/tecracer-theinen).

- New `icmp_type` property, which allows setting the ICMP type when setting up ICMP protocol rules.
- New `displayname` property, which allows defining the display name of the firewall rule.
- New `group` property, which allows you to specify that only matching firewall rules of the indicated group association are copied.
- The `description` property will now update if changed.
- Fixed setting rules with multiple profiles.

### windows_package

> The `windows_package` resource now considers `3010` to be a valid exit code by default. The `3010` exit code means that a package has successfully installed, but requires a reboot.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `windows_package` resource now considers `3010` to be a valid exit code by default. The `3010` exit code means that a package has been successfully installed, but requires a reboot.
```

## YAML Recipes

TODO: Write some stuff

## Custom Resource Improvements

### Improved property require behavior

https://github.com/chef/chef/pull/9688

This should be linked to from the breaking change above

### Resource Partials

https://github.com/chef/chef/pull/9632

### after_resource

> A new `after_resource` state has been added to resources that allows you to better control the state information reporting to Chef Automate when a resource converges.

Reviewer 2: Should this be "the state of information reported to Chef Automate when a resource converges."

Author: No, but what I wrote here is confusing. Let me update that.

TODO: Expand this from https://github.com/chef/chef/pull/9562

### identity Improvements

> A resource's name property is now set to be the identity property by default, and to have desired_state: false by default. This eliminates the need to set `identity: true, desired_state: false` on these properties and better exposes identity data to handler and reporting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A resource's name property is now set to be the identity property by default and to have `desired_state: false` set by default. This eliminates the need to set `identity: true, desired_state: false` on these properties and better exposes identity data to handler and reporting.
```

### compile_time property

The compile_time property is now defined for all custom resources so there's no need to add your own compile-time logic to your resource.

## Other Improvements

### Up to 25% smaller on disk

> We've optimized the files that ship with Chef Infra Client and eliminated many unecessary files from the installation reducing the on disk size of Chef Infra Client by up to 25%.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've optimized the files that ship with Chef Infra Client and eliminated many unnecessary files from the installation reducing the on-disk size of Chef Infra Client by up to 25%.
```

### Windows Performance Improvements

We've optimized the Chef Infra Client for modern Windows releases and improved the performance on these systems.

TODO: This needs some wordsmithing

### Simpler Version Comparisons with node[:platform_version]

> The `node['platform_version']` attribute returned from Ohai can now be intelligently compared as a version instead of a String or Integer. Previously to compare the platform_version many users would first convert the version String to a Float with `node['platform_version']`. This introduced problems on many platforms such as macOS where macOS 10.9 would appear to be a greater version number than 10.15. You can now directly compare the version without converting it first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `node['platform_version']` attribute returned from Ohai can now be intelligently compared as a version instead of a String or Integer. Previously, to compare the platform_version, many users would first convert the version String to a Float with `node['platform_version']`. This introduced problems on many platforms such as macOS where macOS 10.9 would appear to be a greater version number than 10.15. You can now directly compare the version without converting it first.
```

Greater than or equal comparison:

```ruby
node['platform_version'] >= '10.15'
```

> Comparison Using Ruby's Pessimistic Operator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Comparison using Ruby's pessimistic operator:
```

```ruby
node['platform_version'] =~ '~> 10.15'
```

### New helpers for recipes and resources

TODO document why this new helpers matter

- arm?
- ChefUtils::DSL::PathSanity
- ChefUtils::DSL::TrainHelpers
- ChefUtils::DSL::Which

### eager_load_libraries metadata.rb setting

> By default Chef Infra Client eagerly loads all ruby files in each cookbook's libraries directory at runtime. A new metadata.rb option `eager_load_libraries` has been introduced to allow you to control that behavior so that you can control if and when a cookbook library is loaded. Depending on how your libraries are constructed this may greatly improve the runtime performance of your cookbook. With eager loading disabled you may manually load libraries included in your cookbook using Ruby's standard `require` method. Metadata.rb configuration options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default Chef Infra Client eagerly loads all ruby files in each cookbook's libraries directory at runtime. A new metadata.rb option `eager_load_libraries` has been introduced to allow you to control that behavior so that you can control if and when a cookbook library is loaded. Depending on how your libraries are constructed, this may greatly improve the runtime performance of your cookbook. With eager loading disabled, you may manually load libraries included in your cookbook using Ruby's standard `require` method. Metadata.rb configuration options:
```

```ruby
eager_load_libraries false # disable eager loading all libraries
eager_load_libraries 'helper_library.rb' # eager load just the the file helper_library.rb
eager_load_libraries %w(helper_library_1.rb helper_library_2.rb) # eager load both helper_library_1.rb and helper_library_2.rb files
```

> Note: Unless you're experiencing performance issues in your libraries we advise against changing the loading behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note: Unless you're experiencing performance issues in your libraries, we advise against changing the loading behavior.
```

### Improved Gem Source behavior

We've improved the behavior for those that use custom rubygem sources, particularly those operating in air-gapped installations.

TODO: Add details from https://github.com/chef/chef/pull/9480

### always_dump_stacktrace client.rb option

> A new `always_dump_stacktrace` client.rb configuration option and command line option allows you to have any Ruby stacktraces from Chef Infra Client logged directly to the log file. This may help troubleshooting when used in conjunction with centralized logging systems such as Splunk. To enable this new option run `chef-client --always-dump-stacktrace` or add the following to your `client.rb`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A new `always_dump_stacktrace` client.rb configuration option and command line option allows you to have any Ruby stacktraces from Chef Infra Client logged directly to the log file. This may help troubleshooting when used in conjunction with centralized logging systems such as Splunk. To enable this new option, run `chef-client --always-dump-stacktrace` or add the following to your `client.rb`:
```

```ruby
always_dump_stacktrace true
```

### Chef Vault Functionality Out of the Box

> Chef Infra Client now ships with Chef Vault functionality built-in so there's no need to depend on the `chef-vault` cookbook or gem. Chef Vault helpers `chef_vault_item`, `chef_vault`, and `chef_vault_item_for_environment` are included as well as the `chef_vault_secret` resource. Additionally the Chef Vault knife commands are also available out of the box. We don't recommend new users adopt the Chef Vault workflow due to limitations with autoscaling new systems, so these resources should only be consumed by existing Chef Vault users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Chef Infra Client now ships with Chef Vault functionality built-in so there's no need to depend on the `chef-vault` cookbook or gem. Chef Vault helpers `chef_vault_item`, `chef_vault`, and `chef_vault_item_for_environment` are included as well as the `chef_vault_secret` resource. Additionally, the Chef Vault knife commands are also available out of the box. We don't recommend new users adopt the Chef Vault workflow due to limitations with autoscaling new systems, so these resources should only be consumed by existing Chef Vault users.
```

This file holds "in progress" release notes for the current release under development and is intended for consumption by the Chef Documentation team. Please see <https://docs.chef.io/release_notes/> for the official Chef release notes.

# Chef Infra Client 16

## Breaking Changes

### Log Resource Notification Behavior

> The log resource in a recipe or resource will no longer trigger notifications by default. This allows authors to more liberally use log resources without impacting the updated resources count or impacting reporting to Automate. This change will impact users that used the log resource to aggregate notifications from other resources so they could limit the number of times a notification would fire. If you used the log resource to aggregate multiple notifications, you should convert to using the notify group resource which was introduced in Chef Infra Client 15.8.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `log` resource in a recipe or resource will no longer trigger notifications by default. This allows authors to more liberally use `log` resources without impacting the updated resources count or impacting reporting to Chef Automate. This change will impact users that used the `log` resource to aggregate notifications from other resources, so they could limit the number of times a notification would fire. If you used the `log` resource to aggregate multiple notifications, you should convert to using the `notify group` resource, which was introduced in Chef Infra Client 15.8.
```

> Example of notification aggregation with log resource:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Example of notification aggregation with `log` resource:
```

```ruby
template '/etc/foo' do
  source 'foo.erb'
  notifies :write, 'log[Aggregate notifications using a single log resource]', :immediately
end

template '/etc/bar' do
  source 'bar.erb'
  notifies :write, 'log[Aggregate notifications using a single log resource]', :immediately
end

log 'Aggregate notifications using a single log resource' do
  notifies :restart, 'service[foo]', :delayed
end
```

> Example of notification aggregation with notify_group resource:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Example of notification aggregation with `notify_group` resource:
```

```ruby
template '/etc/foo' do
  source 'foo.erb'
  notifies :run, 'notify_group[Aggregate notifications using a single notify_group resource]', :immediately
end

template '/etc/bar' do
  source 'bar.erb'
  notifies :run, 'notify_group[Aggregate notifications using a single notify_group resource]', :immediately
end

notify_group 'Aggregate notifications using a single notify_group resource' do
  notifies :restart, 'service[foo]', :delayed
end
```

> The `ChefDeprecations/LogResourceNotifications` cop in Cookstyle 6.0 and later detects using the log resource for notifications in cookbooks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `ChefDeprecations/LogResourceNotifications` cop in Cookstyle 6.0 and later detects using the `log` resource for notifications in cookbooks.
```

To restore the previous behavior, set `count_log_resource_updates true` in your `client.rb`.

### HWRP Style Resources Now Require resource_name / provides

> Legacy HWRP style resources, those written as Ruby classes in the libraries directory of a cookbook, will now require either the `resource_name` or `provides` methods to be used to define the resource names. Previously, Chef Infra Client would infer the desired resource name from the class, but this magic was problematic and has been removed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Legacy HWRP-style resources, written as Ruby classes in the libraries directory of a cookbook, will now require either the use of `resource_name` or `provides` methods to define the resource names. Previously, Chef Infra Client would infer the desired resource name from the class, but this magic was problematic and has been removed.
```

The `ChefDeprecations/ResourceWithoutNameOrProvides` cop in Cookstyle 6.0 and later detects this deprecation.

### build_essential GCC Updated on Solaris

> On Solaris systems we no longer constrain the version of gcc to 4.8.2 in the build_essential resource to allow for gcc 5 installations.

Reviewer 3: Is 'gcc' supposed to be capitalized here? I'm asking since the header on line 57 seems to indicate that for both mentions of 'gcc' in this.

Author: It's capitalized now

> On Solaris systems we no longer constrain the version of GCC to 4.8.2 in the build_essential resource to allow for gcc 5 installations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On Solaris systems, we no longer constrain the version of GCC to 4.8.2 in the `build_essential` resource to allow for GCC 5 installations.
```

We've added new resources to Chef Infra Client for setting the client to run on an interval using native system schedulers. We believe that these native schedulers provide a more flexible and reliable method for running the client than the traditional method of running as a full service. Using the native schedulers reduces hung clients and eases upgrades. This is the first of many steps towards removing the need for the `chef-client` cookbook and allowing Chef Infra Client to configure itself out of the box.

#### chef_client_cron

Use the `chef_client_cron` resource to setup the Chef Infra Client to run on a schedule using cron on Linux, Solaris, and AIX systems. See the [chef_client_cron documentation](https://docs.chef.io/resources/chef_client_cron/) for full usage information.

#### chef_client_systemd_timer

Use the `chef_client_systemd_timer` resource to setup the Chef Infra Client to run on a schedule using a systemd timer on systemd based Linux systems (RHEL 7+, Debian 8+, Ubuntu 16.04+ SLES 12+). See the [chef_client_systemd_timer documentation](https://docs.chef.io/resources/chef_client_systemd_timer/) for full usage information.

#### chef_client_windows_task

> Use the `chef_client_windows_task` resource to setup the Chef Infra Client to run on a schedule using cron on systemd based Linux systems (RHEL 7+, Debian 8+, Ubuntu 16.04+ SLES 12+). See the [chef_client_systemd_timer documentation](https://docs.chef.io/resources/chef_client_systemd_timer/) for full usage information.

Reviewer 3: This line is a repeat of line 172. I realized this because of the incorrect link cited for full usage info.

Author: Yept that was a total miss. I fixed it.

### user_ulimit

Use the `user_ulimit` resource to set per user ulimit values on Linux systems. See the [user_ulimit documentation](https://docs.chef.io/resources/user_ulimit/) for full usage information. Thanks [@bmhatfield](https://github.com/bmhatfield) for the original work on this resource in the [ulimit cookbook](https://supermarket.chef.io/cookbooks/ulimit).

### windows_security_policy

Use the `windows_security_policy` resource to modify location security policies on Windows hosts. See the [windows_security_policy documentation](https://docs.chef.io/resources/windows_security_policy/) for full usage information.

### windows_user_privilege

Use the `windows_user_privilege` resource to add users and groups to the specified privileges on Windows hosts. See the [windows_user_privilege documentation](https://docs.chef.io/resources/windows_user_privilege/) for full usage information.

## Improved Resources

### compile_time on all resources

> The `compile_time` property is now available for all resources so that they can be set to run at compile time without the need forcing the action.

Reviewer 3: What is "need forcing"?

Author: I updated this sentence

This allows you replace forcing resources to run at compile time:

```ruby
  my_resource "foo" do
    action :nothing
  end.run_action(:run)
```

> With the simpler compile_time property:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With the simpler `compile_time` property:
```

```ruby
  my_resource "foo" do
    compile_time true
  end
```

### build_essential

The `build_essential` resource includes a new `:upgrade` action for macOS systems that allows you to install updates to the Xcode Command Line Tools available via Software Update.

### cron

The `cron` resource has been updated to use the same property validation for cron times that the `cron_d` resource uses. This improves failure messages when invalid inputs are set and also allows for `jan`-`dec` values to be used in the `month` property.

### dnf_package

The `dnf_package` resource, which provides `package` under the hood on any system shipping with DNF, has been greatly refactored to resolve multiple issues. The version behavior and overall resource capabilities now match that of the `yum_package` resource.

> - The `:lock` action now works on RHEL 8

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The `:lock` action now works on RHEL 8.
```

- Fixes to prevent attempting to install the same package during each Chef Infra Client run.
- Resolved several idempotency issues.
- Resolved an issue where installing a package with `options '--enablerepo=foo'` would fail.

### git

The `git` resource now fully supports why-run mode and no longer checks out the `deploy` branch by default as mentioned in the breaking changes section.

### locale

> The locale resource now supports setting the system locale on Windows hosts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `locale` resource now supports setting the system locale on Windows hosts.
```

### msu_package resource improvements

> The `msu_package` resource has been improved to work better with Microsoft's cumulative update packages. Newer releases of these packages will not correctly install over previous versions. We've also extended the default timeout for installing MSU packages to 60 minutes. Thanks for reporting the timeout issue [@danielfloyd](https://github.com/danielfloyd)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `msu_package` resource has been improved to work better with Microsoft's cumulative update packages. Newer releases of these packages will not correctly install over previous versions. We also extended the default timeout for installing MSU packages to 60 minutes. Thanks for reporting the timeout issue, [@danielfloyd](https://github.com/danielfloyd).
```

> The `msu_package` resource has been improved to work better with Microsoft's cumulative update packages. Newer releases of these packages will not correctly install over previous versions. We've also extended the default timeout for installing MSU packages to 60 minutes. Thanks for reporting the timeout issue [@danielfloyd](https://github.com/danielfloyd)

Reviewer 3: Is this sentence correct? I ask because I did a double take when reading it.
>Newer releases of these packages will not correctly install over previous versions.

Author: Check it now.

### package

> The package resource on macOS and Arch Linux systems now supports passing multiple packages into a single package resource via an array. This allows you to collapse multiple resources into a single resource for simpler cookbook authoring and it's also significantly faster as it requires fewer calls to the packaging systems. Thanks for the Arch Linux support [@ingobecker](https://github.com/ingobecker)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `package` resource on macOS and Arch Linux systems now supports passing multiple packages into a single package resource via an array. This allows you to collapse multiple resources into a single resource for simpler cookbook authoring, which is significantly faster as it requires fewer calls to the packaging systems. Thanks for the Arch Linux support, [@ingobecker](https://github.com/ingobecker)!
```

Using multiple resources to install a package:

```ruby
package 'git'
package 'curl'
package 'packer'
```

or

```ruby
%w(git curl packer).each do |pkg|
  package pkg
end
```

can now be simplified to:

```ruby
package %w(git curl packer)
```

### service

> The `service` resource has been updated to support newer releases of `update-rc.d` so that it properly disables sys-v init services on Debian Linux distributions. Thanks [@robuye](https://github.com/robuye)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `service` resource has been updated to support newer releases of `update-rc.d` so that it properly disables sys-v init services on Debian Linux distributions. Thanks [@robuye](https://github.com/robuye)!
```

### windows_firewall_rule

The `windows_firewall_rule` resource has been greatly improved thanks to work by [@pschaumburg](https://github.com/pschaumburg) and [@tecracer-theinen](https://github.com/tecracer-theinen).

- New `icmp_type` property, which allows setting the ICMP type when setting up ICMP protocol rules.
- New `displayname` property, which allows defining the display name of the firewall rule.
- New `group` property, which allows you to specify that only matching firewall rules of the indicated group association are copied.
- The `description` property will now update if changed.
- Fixed setting rules with multiple profiles.

### windows_package

The `windows_package` resource now considers `3010` to be a valid exit code by default. The `3010` exit code means that a package has been successfully installed, but requires a reboot.

#### knife-acl is now built-in

> The knife-acl gem is now part of Chef Infra Client. This gives you the ability to manage Chef organizations and ACLs directly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `knife-acl` gem is now part of Chef Infra Client. This gives you the ability to manage Chef organizations and ACLs directly.
```

## YAML Recipes

> We've added support for writing recipes in YAML to provide a low-code syntax for simple use cases. To write recipes in YAML, Chef resources and any user-defined parameters can be added as elements in a `resources` hash, as in the example below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We added support for writing recipes in YAML to provide a low-code syntax for simple use cases. To write recipes in YAML, Chef resources and any user-defined parameters can be added as elements in a `resources` hash, as in the example below:
```

​
```yaml
---
resources:
  - type: "package"
    name: "httpd"
  - type: "template"
    name: "/var/www/html/index.html"
    source: "index.html.erb"
  - type: "service"
    name: "httpd"
    action:
      - enable
      - start
```
​
This implementation is restrictive and does not support arbitrary Ruby code, helper functions, or attributes. However, if the need for additional customization arises, YAML recipes can be automatically converted into the DSL via the `knife yaml convert` command.

## Custom Resource Improvements

### Improved property require behavior

> As noted in the breaking changes above we've improved how the required value is set on custom resource properties in order to give you a more predictable behavior. This new behavior now allows you to specify actions where individual properties are required. This is especially useful when `:create` actions require certain properties that may not be required for a `:remove` type property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As noted in the breaking changes above, we improved how the required value is set on custom resource properties, in order to give a more predictable behavior. This new behavior now allows you to specify actions where individual properties are required. This is especially useful when `:create` actions require certain properties that may not be required for a `:remove` type property.
```

Example required field defining specific actions:

```ruby
property :password, String, required: [:create]

action :create do
  # code to create something
end

action :remove do
  # code to remove it that doesn't need a password
end
```

### Resource Partials

> Resource partials allow you to define reusable portions of code that can be included in multiple custom resources. This feature is particularly useful when there are common properties, such as authentication properties, that you want to define in a single location, but use for multiple resources. Internally in the Chef Infra Client codebase we've already used this feature to remove duplicate properties from our `subversion` and `git` resources in order to make them easier to maintain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Resource partials allow you to define reusable portions of code that can be included in multiple custom resources. This feature is particularly useful when there are common properties, such as authentication properties, that you want to define in a single location, but use for multiple resources. Internally in the Chef Infra Client codebase, we have already used this feature to remove duplicate properties from our `subversion` and `git` resources and make them easier to maintain.
```

Resource partials are stored in a cookbook's `/resources` directory just like existing custom resources, but they start with the `_` prefix. They're then called using a new `use` helper within the resource where they're needed:

`resources/_api_auth_properties.rb:`

```ruby
property :api_endpoint, String
property :api_key, String
property :api_retries, Integer
```

`resources/mything.rb`:

```ruby
property :another_property, String
property :yet_another_property, String

use 'api_auth_properties'

action :create do
  # some create logic
end
```

The example above shows a resource partial that contains properties for use in multiple resources. You can also use resource partials to define helper methods that you want to use in your actions instead of defining the same helper methods in each action_class.

`resources/_api_auth_helpers.rb:`

```ruby
def make_api_call(endpoint, value)
  # API call code here
end
```

`resources/mything.rb`:

```ruby
property :another_property, String
property :yet_another_property, String

action :create do
  # some create logic
end

action_class do
  use 'api_auth_helpers'
end
```

### after_resource

> A new `after_resource` state has been added to resources that allows you to better control the resource state information reported to Chef Automate when a resource converges. If your custom resource uses the `load_current_value` helper then this after state is calculated automatically. If you don't utilize the `load_current_value` helper and would like fine grained control over the state information sent to Automate you can use a new `load_after_resource` helper to load the state of each property for reporting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A new `after_resource` state has been added to resources that allows you to better control the resource state information reported to Chef Automate when a resource converges. If your custom resource uses the `load_current_value` helper, then this after state is calculated automatically. If you don't utilize the `load_current_value` helper and would like fine grained control over the state information sent to Chef Automate, you can use a new `load_after_resource` helper to load the state of each property for reporting.
```

### identity Improvements

A resource's name property is now set to be the identity property by default and to have `desired_state: false` set by default. This eliminates the need to set `identity: true, desired_state: false` on these properties and better exposes identity data to handler and reporting.

### compile_time property

> The compile_time property is now defined for all custom resources so there's no need to add your own compile-time logic to your resource.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `compile_time` property is now defined for all custom resources,  so there is no need to add your own compile-time logic to your resource.
```

## Other Improvements

### Up to 33% smaller on disk

> We've optimized the files that ship with Chef Infra Client and eliminated many unnecessary files from the installation reducing the on-disk size of Chef Infra Client by up to 33%.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We optimized the files that ship with Chef Infra Client and eliminated many unnecessary files from the installation, reducing the on-disk size of Chef Infra Client by up to 33%.
```

### Windows Performance Improvements

We've optimized the Chef Infra Client for modern Windows releases and improved the performance on these systems.

### Simpler Version Comparisons with node[:platform_version]

> The `node['platform_version']` attribute returned from Ohai can now be intelligently compared as a version instead of a String or Integer. Previously, to compare the platform_version, many users would first convert the version String to a Float with `node['platform_version']`. This introduced problems on many platforms such as macOS where macOS 10.9 would appear to be a greater version number than 10.15. You can now directly compare the version without converting it first.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `node['platform_version']` attribute returned from Ohai can now be intelligently compared as a version instead of as a String or Integer. Previously, to compare the platform_version, many users would first convert the version String to a Float with `node['platform_version']`. This introduced problems on many platforms, such as macOS, where macOS 10.9 would appear to be a greater version number than 10.15. You can now directly compare the version without converting it first.
```

Greater than or equal comparison:

```ruby
node['platform_version'] >= '10.15'
```

Comparison using Ruby's pessimistic operator:

```ruby
node['platform_version'] =~ '~> 10.15'
```

### New helpers for recipes and resources

> Several helpers introduced in Chef Infra Client 15.5 are now available for use in any resource or recipe. These includes:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Several helpers introduced in Chef Infra Client 15.5 are now available for use in any resource or recipe. These helpers include:
```

`sanitized_path`

> sanitize_path is a cross platform method that returns the system's path along with the Chef Infra Client Ruby bin dir / gem bin dir and common system paths such as /sbin and /usr/local/bin.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`sanitize_path` is a cross platform method that returns the system's path along with the Chef Infra Client Ruby bin dir / gem bin dir and common system paths such as `/sbin` and `/usr/local/bin`.
```

Reviewer 3: Also, would "Chef Infra Client Ruby bin dir / gem bin dir" need `formatting`, too? Like:
>Chef Infra Client Ruby `bin dir` / `gem bin dir`

`which(foo)`

> The which helper searches the system's path and returns the first occurrence of a binary, similar to the `which` command on *nix systems. It also allows you to pass an `extra_path` value for additional directories to search in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `which` helper searches the system's path and returns the first occurrence of a binary, similar to the `which` command on *nix systems. It also allows you to pass an `extra_path` value for additional directories to search.
```

```ruby
which('systemctl')
```

```ruby
which('my_app', extra_path: '/opt/my_app/bin')
```

### eager_load_libraries metadata.rb setting

> By default Chef Infra Client eagerly loads all ruby files in each cookbook's libraries directory at runtime. A new metadata.rb option `eager_load_libraries` has been introduced to allow you to control that behavior so that you can control if and when a cookbook library is loaded. Depending on how your libraries are constructed, this may greatly improve the runtime performance of your cookbook. With eager loading disabled, you may manually load libraries included in your cookbook using Ruby's standard `require` method. Metadata.rb configuration options:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, Chef Infra Client eagerly loads all ruby files in each cookbook's libraries directory at runtime. A new metadata.rb option `eager_load_libraries` has been introduced and allows you to control if and when a cookbook library is loaded. Depending on the construction of your libraries, this new option may greatly improve the runtime performance of your cookbook. With eager loading disabled, you may manually load libraries included in your cookbook using Ruby's standard `require` method. Metadata.rb configuration options:
```

```ruby
eager_load_libraries false # disable eager loading all libraries
eager_load_libraries 'helper_library.rb' # eager load just the the file helper_library.rb
eager_load_libraries %w(helper_library_1.rb helper_library_2.rb) # eager load both helper_library_1.rb and helper_library_2.rb files
```

> Note: Unless you're experiencing performance issues in your libraries, we advise against changing the loading behavior.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note: Unless you are experiencing performance issues in your libraries, we advise against changing the loading behavior.
```

### always_dump_stacktrace client.rb option

A new `always_dump_stacktrace` client.rb configuration option and command line option allows you to have any Ruby stacktraces from Chef Infra Client logged directly to the log file. This may help troubleshooting when used in conjunction with centralized logging systems such as Splunk. To enable this new option, run `chef-client --always-dump-stacktrace` or add the following to your `client.rb`:

```ruby
always_dump_stacktrace true
```

### Chef Vault Functionality Out of the Box

> Chef Infra Client now ships with Chef Vault functionality built-in so there's no need to depend on the `chef-vault` cookbook or gem. Chef Vault helpers `chef_vault_item`, `chef_vault`, and `chef_vault_item_for_environment` are included as well as the `chef_vault_secret` resource. Additionally, the Chef Vault knife commands are also available out of the box. We don't recommend new users adopt the Chef Vault workflow due to limitations with autoscaling new systems, so these resources should only be consumed by existing Chef Vault users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Chef Infra Client now ships with built-in Chef Vault functionality, so there's no need to depend on the `chef-vault` cookbook or gem. Chef Vault helpers `chef_vault_item`, `chef_vault`, and `chef_vault_item_for_environment` are included, as well as the `chef_vault_secret` resource. Additionally, the Chef Vault knife commands are also available out of the box. We do not recommend new users adopt the Chef Vault workflow due to limitations with autoscaling new systems, so these resources should only be consumed by existing Chef Vault users.
```

### Ruby 2.7

> Chef Infra Client's ruby installation has been updated to from Ruby 2.6 to Ruby 2.7 which includes many features available for use in resources and libraries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Chef Infra Client's ruby installation has been updated to from Ruby 2.6 to Ruby 2.7, which includes many features available for use in resources and libraries.
```

See <https://medium.com/rubyinside/whats-new-in-ruby-2-7-79c98b265502> for details on many of the new features.

### Ohai 16 Improvements

Ohai has been improved to gather additional system configuration information for use when authoring recipes and resources.

#### Extended Azure Metadata

> The Azure Ohai plugin now gathers the latest version of the metadata provided by the Azure metadata endpoint. This greatly expands the information available on Azure instances. See [Ohai PR 1427](https://github.com/chef/ohai/pull/1427) for an example of the new data gathered.

Reviewer 3: Would it be:
> The `Azure Ohai` plugin
or
> The `Azure` Ohai plugin
?
I'm honestly not sure which applies, but I do know we include `formatting` for named plugins mentions.

Author: I highlighted Azure

#### New Ohai Plugins

> New `IPC` and `Interupts` plugins have been added to Ohai. The IPC plugin exposes SysV IPC shmem information and interupts plugin exposes data from `/proc/interrupts` and `/proc/irq`. Both of these plugins are disabled by default you you'll need to add :Ipc or :Interupts Thanks [@jsvana](https://github.com/jsvana) and [@davide125](https://github.com/davide125) for these new plugins.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
New `IPC` and `Interupts` plugins have been added to Ohai. The IPC plugin exposes SysV IPC shmem information and interupts plugin exposes data from `/proc/interrupts` and `/proc/irq`. Both of these plugins are disabled by default, you will need to add :Ipc or :Interupts. Thanks [@jsvana](https://github.com/jsvana) and [@davide125](https://github.com/davide125) for these new plugins.
```

> New `ipc` and `interupts` plugins have been added to Ohai. The IPC plugin exposes SysV IPC shmem information and interutps plugin exposes data from `/proc/interrupts` and `/proc/irq`. Both of these plugins are disabled by default you you'll need to add :Ipc or :Interupts Thanks [@jsvana](https://github.com/jsvana) and [@davide125](https://github.com/davide125) for these new plugins.

Reviewer 3: There are two instructions in line 484 and line 486 about how to enable these `ipc` and `interupts` plug-ins. Do both of them work? Would you have to put `:Ipc` or `:Interrupts` somewhere in particular? Would you enable `:Ipc` or `:Interrupts` in a particular situation?

Line 484 also should have additional edits

> Note: Both of these plugins are optional plugins which are disabled by default. They can be enabled via your `client.rb`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note: Both `ipc` and `interupts` plugins are optional plugins, which are disabled by default. They can be enabled via your `client.rb`:
```

```ruby
ohai.optional_plugins = [
  :IPC,
  :Interups
]
```

#### Improved Linux Network Plugin Data

> The Linux Network plugin has been improved to gather additional information from the `ethtool` utility. This includes the number of queues (`ethtool -l`), the coalesce parameters (`ethtool -c`), and information about the NIC driver (`ethtool -i)`. Thanks [@matt-c-clark](https://github.com/matt-c-clark) for these improvements.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Linux Network plugin has been improved to gather additional information from the `ethtool` utility. This includes the number of queues (`ethtool -l`), the coalesce parameters (`ethtool -c`), and information about the NIC driver (`ethtool -i`). Thanks [@matt-c-clark](https://github.com/matt-c-clark) for these improvements.
```

#### Windows DMI plugin

> Windows systems now include a new DMI plugin which presents data in a similar format to the DMI plugin on *nix systems. This makes it easier to detect system information like manufacturer, serial number or asset tag number in a cross platform way.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Windows systems now include a new `DMI` plugin which presents data in a similar format to the `DMI` plugin on *nix systems. This makes it easier to detect system information like manufacturer, serial number, or asset tag number in a cross platform way.
```

## New Platforms

> Over the last quarter we've worked to greatly expand the platforms we support with the addition of Chef Infra Client packages for Ubuntu 20.04 amd64, Amazon Linux 2 x86_64/aarch64, and Debian 10 amd64. With the release of Chef Infra Client 16 we've expanded our platform support again with the following new platforms:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Over the last quarter, we worked to greatly expand the platforms that we support with the addition of Chef Infra Client packages for Ubuntu 20.04 amd64, Amazon Linux 2 x86_64/aarch64, and Debian 10 amd64. With the release of Chef Infra Client 16, we expanded our platform support again with the following new platforms:
```

> Over the last quarter we've worked to greatly expand the platforms we support and produce packages for with the addition of Chef Infra Client packages for Ubuntu 20.04 amd64, Amazon Linux 2 x86_64/aarch64, and Debian 10 amd64. With the release of Chef Infra Client 16 we've expanded our platform support again with the following new platforms:

Reviewer 3: I feel like you're missing a part of a sentence in:
>   we support and produce packages **for with** the addition of Chef Infra Client packages for Ubuntu 20.04 amd64, 
When that is clarified, I have an edit to suggest.

Author: Oh yep I oddly merged that together and destroyed it

- RHEL 8 aarch64
- Ubuntu 20.04 aarch64
- SLES 16 aarch64

## Newly Introduced Deprecations

> Several legacy Windows helpers have been deprecated as they will always return true when running on Chef Infra Client's currently supported platforms. The helpers previously detected systems before Windows 2012 and systems running Windows Nano, which has been discontinued by Microsoft. These helpers were never documented externally so their usage is most likely minimal, but a new Cookstyle rule has been introduced to detect the usage of `older_than_win_2012_or_8?`: [ChefDeprecations/DeprecatedWindowsVersionCheck](https://github.com/chef/cookstyle/blob/master/docs/cops_chefdeprecations.md#chefdeprecationsdeprecatedwindowsversioncheck)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Several legacy Windows helpers have been deprecated as they will always return true when running on Chef Infra Client's currently supported platforms. The helpers previously detected systems before Windows 2012 and systems running Windows Nano, which has been discontinued by Microsoft. These helpers were never documented externally, so their usage is most likely minimal. A new Cookstyle rule has been introduced to detect the usage of `older_than_win_2012_or_8?`: [ChefDeprecations/DeprecatedWindowsVersionCheck](https://github.com/chef/cookstyle/blob/master/docs/cops_chefdeprecations.md#chefdeprecationsdeprecatedwindowsversioncheck).
```

Author: I changed this to prior to

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure what you mean by that. My suggested edit included creating a new sentence, which I don't see reflected so far.

Reviewer 3: Now I'm following, but the other edits still stand.

> Several legacy Windows helpers have been deprecated as they will always return true when running on Chef Infra Client's currently supported platforms. The helpers previously detected systems prior to Windows 2012 and systems running Windows Nano, which has been discontinued by Microsoft. These helpers were never documented externally so their usage is most likely minimal, but a new Cookstyle rule has been introduced to detect the usage of `older_than_win_2012_or_8?`: [ChefDeprecations/DeprecatedWindowsVersionCheck](https://github.com/chef/cookstyle/blob/master/docs/cops_chefdeprecations.md#chefdeprecationsdeprecatedwindowsversioncheck)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Several legacy Windows helpers have been deprecated as they will always return true when running on Chef Infra Client's currently supported platforms. The helpers previously detected systems prior to Windows 2012 and systems running Windows Nano, which has been discontinued by Microsoft. These helpers were never documented externally so their usage is most likely minimal. A new Cookstyle rule has been introduced to detect the usage of `older_than_win_2012_or_8?`: [ChefDeprecations/DeprecatedWindowsVersionCheck](https://github.com/chef/cookstyle/blob/master/docs/cops_chefdeprecations.md#chefdeprecationsdeprecatedwindowsversioncheck).
```
